- [Instructor] In the early parts of the course we'll create
a spring batch job with steps that mimic the real life job
of delivering a package.
Configuring a real life job will provide us a tangible
example to relate to as we learn how to control the flow
of a batch job.
You can always return to this graphic as we work through
the lessons to see what we're trying to achieve
as we introduce more advanced concepts in later lessons
we'll expand upon this job.
You can see that the first step within our job
is to package an item.
We're going to work now to build our first batch job
that completes the package item step.
So to get started we're going to navigate into our project
to the main class for the application and once we open
that class we're going to apply
the EnableBatchProcessing annotation.
This annotation will cause several Beans to be registered
by default within Spring's IoC container.
This includes a job repository, a job launcher, a job
registry and a transaction manager.
There will also be two other Beans registered
that we're going to be working with throughout this lesson
and we're going to inject those Beans into our class.
The first is a JobBuilderFactory and we'll add
that as a dependency within our class and then we'll add
the second which is a StepBuilderFactory.
And the job in step builder factories allow us to create
job builders or step builders and these objects provide us
with a fluid API where we can chain method calls together
in order to configure a job or a step.
So if you're familiar with the builder pattern typically
you'll invoke one method after the other until you want
to create your object and then you'll invoke
the build method to actually build the object.
Let's take a look at this in action
in order to create a job.
So we're just going to create a new method
that returns a type of job and typically for the name
of the method we provide the name of our job,
in this case it's going to be the deliverPackageJob.
And then these jobs are actually defined as Beans so we'll
apply the Bean annotation to this method and then within
the body of this method we're going to leverage
our JobBuilderFactory and a job builder to create a
job object that will be returned from the body of the method
and that's going to be our job bean.
So let's use our jobBuilderFactory, and the first thing
we'll do is we'll call it the get method.
This method is going to return a job builder and it requires
us to specify the name of our job.
In this case it's going to be the deliverPackageJob
and from there we can call the start method.
The start method is going to allow us to specify the first
step within our job and in this case if you remember we are
going to be calling the packageItemStep.
So we haven't defined it yet, I'm just going to add a stub
for our step which will be defined later.
So this really completes the configuration of our job
and we'd like to build that job object so we just invoke
the build method on our job builder.
Okay, now let's go ahead and define our step.
So I'm going to create that method and then we'll just pull
it a little bit higher in our class and just like a job
a step is defined as a Bean.
So we're going to add the Bean annotation to our
packageItemStep method and then within the body
of this method we'll use our step builder to create
the step we would like to place within our job.
So we'll get a step builder by invoking the get method
on the stepBuilderFactory.
So it's very similar to our jobBuilderFactory
and when we call get we need to provide the name
of the step.
In this case it's going to be the packageItemStep
and from here we're going to define basically
the implementation of our step.
And it's going to be a tasklet.
So a tasklet is a particular type of step.
It has one method on its interface, execute,
and that method will get called over and over again until
the tasklet signals that it has been completed.
So to create a tasklet just type new within the argument
section of the method and then type tasklet and then hold
Control and hit Space and then you'll want to select
the first option, Anonymous Inner Type, and this is going
to fill out the implementation of the tasklet interface.
Here you see the execute method which we will need
to provide the implementation for.
In our case we're just going to write out some information
to the console so that we can see our step execute.
And we'll just write, "The item has been packaged,"
and that will be all the work we do
within our packageItemStep.
Now as I mentioned the execute method will be called
continuously until the tasklet signals to the framework
that it would like to stop.
So the way we do that is by returning a repeat status
of finished and that will cause execution
of that method to stop within our batch processing.
If you'd like it to continue you can use
the CONTINUABLE RepeatStatus but since we just want
to execute this once I'm going to go ahead and return FINISHED.
So now we've defined our tasklet you'll remember we're using
a step builder so we need to go ahead and build our step
and there we have the configuration of our job and our step.
So we created the deliverPackageJob
using the jobBuilderFactory in job builder.
Within that job we have one step, the packageItemStep,
and that step is a tasklet and that tasklet just writes
some information to the console one time
and then our job will stop.
Okay, so we have all this in place, how do we go ahead
and run this?
Well Spring Boot makes that pretty easy for us.
Within Spring Boot there is a job launcher.
So a job launcher just kicks off and starts a job
and they provide an implementation of a job launcher
known as a job launcher command line runner.
So basically what Spring Boot will do is scan
the application, find all of our jobs and then run them.
So all we need to do is right click on our application
class, go to Run As and then Java Application.
And then you'll notice within the console our job
is going to launch.
So there you can see that the deliverPackageJob starts,
we execute the packageItemStep, and then we can see
the console output that we specified in our tasklet,
and then finally you can see that our step is executed
and then our job has completed.
So that completes our first Spring batch job.
As we work through the course we're going to dive into
the details of what we saw here and then learn more advanced
techniques for building out jobs.